What is Git
Git is a version control system(VCS) which tracks changes in your project

VCS?
A VCS keeps track of the contributions of the developers working as a team on the projects.
They maintain the history of code changes done and with project

Github
It is a cloud based hostig service that lets you manage Git repositories by using git.
The developer can identify who has made what changes and then run tests and fix bugs
if any and then do necessary feature implementation. In case of any unforeseen circumstances,
the code can be reverted to any of the previously working versions

What is a git repository?
Git repository refers to a place where all the Git files are stored.
These files can either be stored on the local repository or on the remote repository.


How to create a git repository?
install git in your system
then create a folder for the project and then run git init.
a .git file in the project folder which indicates that the repository has been created

To set up your name and email address before using git commands
git config --global user.name "Sindhu"
git config --global user.email “myemail”

Git Commands
git init - initialize an empty Git repository
git add filename - add unstaged files one by one
git add . - add all unstaged files at once
git status - this command shows which files modified in working directory
git commit -m "message" - commits all files currently in Git's staging area
git log - display's repository history in reverse order
git diff - shows the cnahges made to the files
git reset HEAD filename - Unstage the specified file from staging area (reverse of git add)
git rm filename - removes the file
git push - pushes the commits to the remote repo
git pull - pulls the changes from the remote repo
git checkout filename - undoes the changes made to the specific file (unstaged)
git checkout . - undoes the changes made to all files (unstaged)


Did practicals on Git:

Created a couple of local repositories and pushed them to remote

https://github.com/sindhug95/Summary-level-notes
https://github.com/sindhug95/Git-Practice
